Create configuration/environment-variable (#664)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/configuration/environment-variable.md

---
# 编写日期
date: 2021-03-02 17:19:10
# 作者 Github 名称
author: z8674558
# 关键字
keywords:
# 描述
description:
# 分类
category: 
# 引用
ref: undefined
---

# Configuration from environment variable

By default, EMQ X maps environment variables with prefix ``EMQX_``
to key-value pairs in configuration files.

Mapping rules from environment variable name to config key

- Prefix ``EMQX_`` is removed
- Upper case letters are mapped to lower case letters
- Double underscore ``__`` is mapped to ``.``

## Examples

```bash
# management.listener.http = 9000
$ export EMQX_MANAGEMENT__LISTENER__HTTP=9000
$ _build/emqx/rel/emqx/bin/emqx console

...

Starting emqx on node emqx@127.0.0.1
Start http:management listener on 9000 successfully.
```

::: tip Tip
环境变量只在运行 EMQ X 的终端中有效，且没有持久化,

> 在一个终端中设置的环境变量无法在另一个终端中使用。

Author: you wrote Chinese in English version

---
# 编写日期
date: 2021-03-02 17:19:10
# 作者 Github 名称
author: z8674558
# 关键字
keywords:
# 描述
description:
# 分类
category: 
# 引用
ref: undefined
---

# Configuration from environment variable

Use environment variables to set configuration values temporarily.

By default, EMQ X maps environment variables with prefix ``EMQX_`` to key-value pairs in configuration files.

- Default mapping rules:

  + Prefix ``EMQX_`` is removed

>   + All upper case letters are replaced with lower case letters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  + Upper case letters are mapped to lower case
```

>   + ``__`` is replaced with ``.``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  + Double underscore``__`` is mapped to ``.``
```

>   + Double underscore``__`` is mapped to ``.``

Reviewer: nit, there is a space missing
```suggestion
  + Double underscore ``__`` is mapped to ``.``
```

Author: ty fixed
